This is the source for the lab website.  It includes HTML, CSS and JS
files for the basic site and a Makefile for (1) moving the html
generated by the knitr process in ../R into the website and (2)
deploying the site to a remote server.

# How to edit

The files that are used in the web site are found in the `source`
subdirectory.  Most of the handwritten content for the site are found
in files ending in *.md*.  (Some are in files with other extensions,
namely *.erb* and *.haml*, which are templating languages.)

This system uses *kramdown* as its markdown engine.  Different
markdown systems are very similar, but kramdown has its own
[quick reference manaual](http://kramdown.gettalong.org/quickref.html).

This site uses the [bootstrap](http://getbootstrap.com) style sheets,
which means that there are certain classes that can be assigned to
HTML elements for consistent look, for example the class
`.page-header` might be applied to the top section of a page and a
thin horizontal line is drawn below it.  You can add class attributes
in kramdown with {:.page-header} on the line immediately below the
element.

The setup has become rather complex over time. Part of the issue is
that different parts of the website are generated through different
processes. For example, the tutorial ("tut/" folder) was generated in
the sibling folder (../R, see Makefile there). The statsTeachR class
modules contain similar code and instructions ("str/" folder), but
were generated from knitr files that are not part of this repo (see
"Random Notes", below). The first edition of Applied Statistical
Genetics in R ("book.e1/") came from a different website and were
manually edited to incorporate into this website.

"str", "tut" and "book.e1" folders each have custom sidebars that are
displayed conditionally by including "partials", which are the files
beginning with underscores. 

"tut" displays a sidebar that is the same as its menu, i.e.
_tut_sidebar.haml includes _tut_menu.erb.

"str" displays a sidebar of the individual labs for a selected module.
The _str_modN.haml files contain the different labs and
_str_sidebar.haml includes the corresponding _str_mod?.haml depending
on which module. _str_menu.haml includes all of the _str_mod?.haml files, too.

"book.e1" displays a sidebar that is unique to the first edition and
so exists only in _booke1_sidebar.haml.

All this is controlled in the master "layouts/layout.haml", which has
become quite complicated to edit, itself, due to the cascading menus and 
factored menus just described.



# Build information

This site requires ruby.  I suggest not modifying the system ruby.
You can accomplish this by either using a ruby version manager or
installing a local ruby.  But the easiest is just to add the line
"gem: --user-install" to your ~/.gemrc.

Also, because we're not deploying the gems, let's just keep copies in
our local home dir.  Run `bundle config path ~/.vendor/bundle` once.

This uses [middleman](http://middlemanapp.com) to create a static
website from pieces.  To install middleman run `gem install
middleman`.

This site directory was created using `middleman init site`.

To work on the site, cd into *site* and then run `middleman`, which
starts up a server that automatically refreshes with updated pages as
you edit the templates, parts, etc.

To create the static website to deploy, run `middleman build`, which
will create files under *build* that can be copied to a website.

To push the built website to the remote server on stat-gen.org, I use
the rsync deploy method (see config.rb for settings).  `middleman
deploy` will syncronize the remote server with the *build* directory.
In order for this to work, you must have your public key stored on the
remote server.

# Random Notes

The str tutorials are derived from a separate process of knitr files
that generate HTML and then thrown over the wall.  I first rename them
using something like this in the mod4_post_analytics folder:

for i in *.html; do mv $i Mod4_$i.erb; done

Then I strip everything before and after the body tags, inclusive.

perl -i.bak -ne 'BEGIN { $b=0 }; if (/<\/body>/) { $b=!$b }; print if $b; if (/<body>/) { $b=!$b }' ./*.erb

Then I copied them.

cp *.erb ~/src/GWAS/site/source/str

But then I had to manually update the layout.haml file with the custom menu.
